# Introduction


THIS TEXT IS IN FLUX...


The Dynamic Link Exchange Protocol [](#I-D.ietf-manet-dlep) describes a
protocol for modems to advertise the status of wireless links between reachable
destinations to attached routers. The core specification of the protocol assumes
that every modem in the radio network has an attached DLEP router, and the MAC
address of the DLEP interface on the router is used to identify the destination
in the network for purposes of reporting the state and quality of the link to
that destination.

There are some classes of modems where the concept of the destination router
does not apply, as the modem provides connectivity into some infrastructure or
backbone network, without an obvious DLEP router. However, there is benefit in
being able to use the DLEP protocol to report link state and quality from the
local modem to the infrastructure or backbone. Examples of such devices can
include LTE modems, IEEE 802.11 stations not in ad-hoc mode, and some satellite
terminals.

To enable routers to take advantage of the DLEP protocol this extension
adds a single enhancement to the DLEP protocol: A new Upstream Link Identifier
Data Item. This Data Item replaces the use of the MAC Address Data Item whenever
the DLEP destination does not have a router reachable by MAC address.

## Requirements

The key words "MUST", "MUST NOT", "REQUIRED", "SHALL", "SHALL NOT", "SHOULD", 
"SHOULD NOT", "RECOMMENDED", "MAY", and "OPTIONAL" in this document are to be 
interpreted as described in BCP 14, RFC 2119 [](#RFC2119).

# Operation

To use this extension, as with any other DLEP extension, the extension MUST be
announced during DLEP session initialization, and if both DLEP peers agree to
the use of the extension, then the Upstream Link Identifier Data Item MAY be used.

* I'm sure there's more to say here...

## Upstream Link Identifier Data Item

The Upstream Link Identifier Data Item Data Item MAY be used whenever a MAC
Address Data Item is defined as useable in core DLEP.

     0                   1                   2                   3
     0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1
    +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
    | Data Item Type                | Length                        |
    +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
    |                  Upstream Link Identifier...                  :
    +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+

Data Item Type:
:    TBD

Length:
:    > 0, 4 RECOMMENDED.

Upstream Link Identifier:
:    The unique identifier of the upstream link destination.  This identifier
     has no implicit meaning and is only used to discriminate between multiple upstream links.

# Security Considerations

As an extension to the core DLEP protocol, the security considerations of that 
protocol apply to this extension.  This extension adds no additional security 
mechanisms or features.

None of the features introduced by this extension require extra consideration
by an implementation.

# IANA Considerations

This section specifies requests to IANA.

## Registration

* A new DLEP extension code, from the DLEP extension codes registry.
