# Introduction

The [Dynamic Link Exchange Protocol (DLEP)](#RFC8175) describes a protocol for
modems to advertise the status of wireless links between reachable destinations
to attached routers. The core specification of the protocol assumes that every
modem in the radio network has an attached DLEP router, and requires that the
MAC address of the DLEP interface on the attached router is used to identify the
destination in the network for purposes of reporting the state and quality of
the link to that destination.

This document describes a DLEP Extension allowing modems that do not meet the
strict requirement that DLEP must be implemented on a single Layer 2 domain to
use DLEP to describe link availability and quality to one or more destinations
reachable beyond a local or remote device on the Layer 2 domain. A router can
use this knowledge to influence any routing or flow-control decisions regarding
traffic to this destination, understanding that such traffic flows via Layer 3.

A Layer 3 destination may be an attached DLEP router, in the case of a modem
that provides Layer 3 wide area network connectivity between devices, or a
logical destination that describes a set of attached subnets, when referring to
some upstream backbone network infrastructure.

To enable devices to take advantage of the DLEP protocol this extension adds a
single enhancement: A new [Link Identifier Data Item](#lidi). 

## Requirements

The key words "MUST", "MUST NOT", "REQUIRED", "SHALL", "SHALL NOT", "SHOULD", 
"SHOULD NOT", "RECOMMENDED", "MAY", and "OPTIONAL" in this document are to be 
interpreted as described in BCP 14, RFC 2119 [](#RFC2119).

# Operation

To refer to a Layer 3 DLEP Destination, the DLEP session participant adds a
[Link Identifier Data Item](#lidi) to the relevant Destination Message, and (as usual)
includes a MAC Address Data Item. When paired with a Link Identifier Data Item,
the MAC Address Data Item describes the MAC address of the node in the network
beyond which the Layer 3 DLEP Destination resides. The MAC address MAY
belong to the DLEP peer modem, if the over-the-air network is not a single Layer
2 domain, or MAY be the MAC address of a remote node in the Layer 2 domain that
has indicated that it has DLEP Destinations reachable beyond it. How such remote
destinations are discovered is beyond the scope of this specification.

As only modems are initially aware of Layer 3 DLEP Destinations, Link
Identifier Data Items referring to a new link MUST first appear in a DLEP
Destination Up Message from the modem to the router. Once a link has been
identified in this way, Link Identifier Data Items MAY be used by either DLEP
participant during the lifetime of a DLEP session. Because of this, a router
MUST NOT send a DLEP Destination Announce Message containing a Link Identifier
Data Item referring to a link that has not been mentioned in a prior DLEP
Destination Up Message.

Because the MAC Address associated with any DLEP Destination Message containing
a Link Identifier Data Item is not the Layer 2 address of the destination, all
DLEP Destination Up Messages MUST contain Layer 3 information. In the case of
modems that provide Layer 3 wide area network connectivity between devices, this
means one or more IPv4 or IPv6 Address Data Items providing the Layer 3 address
of the destination. When referring to some upstream backbone network
infrastructure, this means one or more IPv4 or IPv6 Attached Subnet Data Items,
for example: '0.0.0.0/0' or '::/0'. This allows the DLEP peer router to
understand the properties of the link to those routes.

When the DLEP peer router wishes to forward packets to the Layer 3 destination
or subnet, the MAC address associated with the link MUST be used as the Layer 2
destination of the packet.

## Identifier Restrictions

A Link identifier is 4 octets in length. The method for generating identifiers
is a modem implementation matter and out of scope of this document. Routers MUST
NOT make any assumptions about the meaning of identifiers, or how identifiers
are generated.

Within a single DLEP session, all link identifiers MUST be unique per MAC
Address. This means that a Layer 3 DLEP Destination is uniquely identified by
the pair: {MAC Address,Link Id}.

Identifiers MUST NOT be reused, i.e. a {MAC Address,Link Id} pair that has
been used to refer to one destination MUST NOT be recycled to refer to a
different destination within the lifetime of a single DLEP session.

## Negotiation

To use this extension, as with all DLEP extensions, the extension MUST
be announced during DLEP session initialization. A router advertises
support by including the value 'Link Identifiers' (TBD1), [](#tbd), in the
Extension Data Item within the Session Initialization Message. A modem
advertises support by including the value 'Link Identifiers' (TBD1) in
the Extension Data Item within the Session Initialization Response
Message. If both DLEP peers advertise support for this extension then
the Link Identifier Data Item MAY be used.

If a modem requires support for this extension in order to describe
destinations, and the router does not advertise support, then the modem
MUST NOT include a Link Identifier Data Item in any DLEP Message.
However, the modem SHOULD NOT immediately terminate the DLEP session,
rather it SHOULD use session-wide DLEP Data Items to announce general
information about all reachable destinations via the modem. By doing
this, a modem allows a router not supporting this extension to at least
make a best guess at the state of any reachable network. A modem MUST
NOT attempt to re-use the MAC Address Data Item to perform some kind of
sleight-of-hand, assuming that the router will notice the DLEP Peer Type
of the modem is special in some way.


# Link Identifier Data Item		{#lidi}

The Link Identifier Data Item MAY be used wherever a MAC Address Data
Item is defined as usable in core DLEP.

     0                   1                   2                   3
     0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1
    +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
    | Data Item Type                | Length                        |
    +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
    |  Flags        |            Link Identifier...                 :
    +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
    

Data Item Type:
:    TBD2, [](#tbd)

Length:
:    5

Flags:
:    Flags field, defined below.

Link Identifier:
:    The 4 octet unique identifier of the Layer 3 destination.  This identifier
     has no implicit meaning and is only used to discriminate between multiple links.

The Flags field is defined as:

     0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 
    +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
    |    Reserved   |
    +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+

Reserved:
:    MUST be zero.  Left for future assignment.


# Security Considerations

As an extension to the core DLEP protocol, the security considerations of that 
protocol apply to this extension.  This extension adds no additional security 
mechanisms or features.

None of the features introduced by this extension require extra consideration
by an implementation.

# IANA Considerations		{#tbd}

Upon approval of this document, IANA is requested to:

* Assign a new value (TBD1) from the Specification Required section of the
  DLEP Extensions Registry, named "Link Identifiers".  
  
* Assign a new value (TBD2) from the Specification Required section of the
  DLEP Data Item Type Values Registry, named "Link Identifier".
 
##  DLEP Link Identifier Flag

Upon approval of this document, IANA is requested to create a new DLEP
registry, named "Link Identifier Flags".

The following table provides initial registry values and the
[](#RFC5226) defined policies that should apply to the registry:

---------------------------------------------
Bit         Description/Policy
----------- ---------------------------------
0-7         Unassigned/Specification Required

---------------------------------------------